Global logic ::
1. All oops concepts in java asking with program
2. All basic concepts of Hadoop  

KPIT technologies ::
 write map reduce program for word count and then about null values in a column
Interview Questions
Write a program to add all elements in a file .

Infosys ::
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Write a mapreduce to find maximum dep salary
Wordcount program and explanation in mapreduce .
Few project related questions
replication factor zookeeper etc  

 Infy Interview Hadoop - hive and pig
Word count program in hive
Steps
Security enabling in hive - how to get other users not opting for it.
Pig - user ID and page I'd User ID and age
Get the aged 18 to 25 for top 5 visited websites
Interview Questions
What is RDD (spark)
What r the problem with In u place
How do u use global sort in hive and partitioning logics
Diff between bucketing and partitioning
When will u use this..
Syntax for bucking and partitioning  
--------------------------------------------------------------
DELL EMC::

Java, SQL and simple Stat Questions
Find Second Max value in a Column of a SQL Table ?
Core Java Questions.  
------------------------------------------------------------------

Solix Technologies::
currently on which project u r working. about project the questions on hadoop and java questions.
write program on mapreduce.
write program on spark
write sqoop command.
hdfs questions and hive questions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
DataMetica::
hadoop architecture
Difference Between local variable and global variable? 
whole big data was asked from me sqoop,pig,hive,java,hive architecture,joins ,input split s ,co group ,hive optimization,file formats , sequential vs orc,partition buckting , udfs and lot more .
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tripod Technologies

1.) Limitations of Hadoop
2.) How do we do indexing in Hadoop
3.) How to do performance tuning in hadoop
4.) what are different types of joins in Hive
5.) A hive program asking to find the no.of employees Dept wise.   

